1About My Family 
2My family is not very big, just a typical family: Dad, Mom, me, my brother and sister and our cat. My Mummy is fortyone, she is a teacher of Spanish at the University. 
3She is a born teacher. She has teaching abilities. My Dad is forty-two, he is a professional painter, he works for a design company.
 4My parents both like their work very much. My elder sister Natasha is nineteen, she goes to the University, she wants to be a teacher of history. 
5She is fond of reading books on history and fiction. My younger brother Igor is only six years old, he goes to the kindergarten. 
6He is very funny, I like to spend my free time teaching him something. Igor likes to play with our cat. My grandparents are retired.
 They like gardening. They spend a lot of their time in the garden. They grow vegetables and fruits. We enjoy having fresh vegetables and green on our dinner table. 
I love my family very much. We always help each other. Everyone in my family is my best friend. Questions: 1. How many are there in the family? 
2. Do you have a brother or a sister? 3. Where do your parents work? 4. Do your parents understand you? 5. In what way do you help your parents? 
6. How old are your grandparents? 7. How do you get along with your family? 8. Which of the parents do you want to be like? 
Vocabulary: typical — типичный Spanish — испанский
My School (1)
 As you become older you realize that there are several essential things and places you always long to come back to. 
They are your birthplace, your home and the school you went to.
 My school was a three-storeyed building situated in one of the residential districts of our city (town, settlement). 
All the children from the neighbourhood went there because it was a walking distance from their homes. 
There was a sports ground behind the school-building and a green lawn with flower-beds in front of it. 
The school was built a few years ago. That's why its classrooms were light and spacious. 
There were three large windows in each classroom with flower pots on the windowsills. 
It was pupils' (especially girls') responsibility to water the flowers. 
And they did it with utmost care. There were maps and portraits, tables and charts on the walls of the classrooms. 
Our classroom was on the second floor. Its windows faced the school-yard. 
Our form was the only one at school who had a formmaster, but not a form-mistress.
 He appeared to be a very kind and knowledgeable teacher who spared no time to take us to different places of interest and exhibitions. 
He taught us Russian and Russian literature. We respected him very much. Our lessons began at eight o'clock in the morning and lasted till one thirty in the afternoon. We had six lessons a day. Every pupil had a day-book where the teachers wrote down the mark each pupil had earned for his answers. The teacher also wrote down the mark in the class register. When the teacher asked a question, the pupils who could answer it raised their hands, and the teacher called out one of them to answer the question. The pupils were often called to the blackboard to do some exercises or to write some sentences. When they made mistakes, other pupils .were called out to correct those mistakes or the teacher corrected them herself. After every lesson the teachers gave us some home assignments both written and oral. At the next lesson the teachers checked them up. The teachers often took our exercise-books home to check them up. If there were any mistakes si e corrected them and gave us marks. At the end of each quarter we got our report cards which our parents signed. At the end of the study year we were promoted, to the next form. Questions: 
1. What do you realize as you become older? 2. At which school did you study? 3. Where was your school situated? 
4. Why did all the children from the neighborhood go to your school? 
5. What was there behind the school-building and in front of it? 
6. When was the school built? 7. Were the classrooms light and spacious? 
8. What was there on the walls of the classrooms? 
9. On which floor was your classroom situated? 
10. What kind of a man was your form-master? 
11. What subject did he teach? 12. When did your lessons begin? 13. How many lessons had you a day? 
14. What did the teachers write down in the day-books of every pupil? 
15. What for were the pupils often called to the blackboard? 
16. What happened if the pupils made mistakes? 
17. What did the teachers give you after every lesson? 
18. What for did the teachers often take your exercisebooks home? 19. What did you get at the end of each quarter? 20. Where were you promoted at the end of the study year? Vocabul
School Life
 I am a pupil of the 11-th form, I study at school number 
9. I would like to tell your about our school life. I go to school five days a week.
 Our classes start at 8 o'clock a. m. and last till 3 o'clock p.m.
 So we have 6 or 7 lessons a day. We study many different subjects: Russian, English, French, 
literatures, history, geography, biology, physics, chemistry, mathematics, programming and computer,, sciences, languages, 
literature and history are my favourite subjects. I make good marks in these subjects. 
The school year is divided into four terms, called quarters. 
It begins on the 1st of September known as a Day of knowledge and finishes in May. 
Each quarter is followed by holidays. Every pupil has a day-book where the teachers 
put down the marks, that pupil has earned at the class. 
During the classes pupils are to answer the teacher's questions, 
do some exercises, write sentences home assignment. 
At the next lesson the teachers check them up. 
To do good at school one should make home assignments regulary, be active at the
 lessons and spend at least two-three hoars every day studying. I like studying. 
My favourite proverb is "Live and learn". Questions: 1. What school do you study at? 
2. What time do the lessons begin? 3. What subjects do you study at school? 
4. What are your favourite subjects? 5. How many lessons a day have you got? 
6. Do you regulary make the home assignments?, count, read, the pupils are often called to the blackboard. After every lesson the teachers give us
The Subjects We Do at School. My Favourite Subject (1)
We did quite a lot of subjects at school. They were: Physics, Mathematics, Biology, Russian Literature, Chemistry, English, History of this country and many other subjects. 
It was rather difficult to go to school when a school-leaver, we had so much to do. 
I know that all the subjects are important and they all must be payed much attention to, but still I didn't like exact sciences. 
I spent much time on doing them at home. However hard I tried, all those formulas and definitions were mixed up in my head and 
I couldn't make it out after all. So I had nothing to do but sit for two or three hours swotting Physics, Chemistry and Maths. 
My favourite subjects were Literature, History, English. Most of all I liked English. 
I read English books, tried to translate some stories from newspapers from English into Russian and vice versa.
 I had some English handbooks and they were of great help to me when I studied English Grammar and did some exercises.
 At our English lessons we read quite a lot of dull texts from our textbooks. But in my view, written texts and textbooks are not important. 
The best way to improve your language skills and habits is to work at a language laboratory. But there was no good language laboratory at our school. 
And I spent plenty of time at home listening to the tapes, imitating the sounds and intonations of the native speakers of English.
 I was working hard at my pronunciation because my teacher said that it was my weak point. 
Sometimes I spoke English with my friends after classes and they said I was making good progress in the language. 
I decided to take my entrance exams to the Institute because I want to know English. 
Nowadays, it's impossible to do without foreign languages because of expanding economic, cultural ties of this country with other countries of the world. 
Besides, one can't be a learned and well-educated person if he doesn't know at least one foreign language.
 As for me, I'd like to read English and American Literature, to understand it without resorting to anybody's help. Questions: 
1. What subjects did you do at school? 2. Why was it difficult to go to school when a schoolleaver? 
3. What subjects didn't you like? Why? 4. What was your favourite subject? 5. What is the best way to improve your language skills? 
6. Why did you decide to take your entrance exams to the Institute?
